---
layout: page
title: Yu Shufan's Project Portfolio Page
---

### Project: TeachBook

TeachBook is a desktop app made for primary and secondary school teachers to manage student contacts. The user interacts with it using a CLI, and it has a GUI created with JavaFX. It is written in Java, and has about 10 kLoC.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

* **New Feature 1**: Added the ability to switch among classes.
  * What it does: This feature allows users to switch to another class to see the student list of that class.
  * Justification: This feature is significant to the app because the app is designed in the way that users need to use a command to switch display among the student list of different classes.

* **New Feature 2**: Added the remark command.
    * What it does: This feature allows users to give any special notes to a student.
    * Justification: This feature improves the usability of the app because a typical user (teacher) may often want to add a remark to a student, such as the student needs to improve in study.
    
* **Code contributed**: [RepoSense link](https://nus-cs2103-ay2122s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/?search=fans2619&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&breakdown=true&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&since=2021-09-17&tabOpen=false)

* **Enhancements to existing features**:
  * Modified the logic of the existing `delete` command to accommodate the new class component

* **Documentation**:
  * User Guide:
    * Came up with some new command formats
    * Added the "Notes about the command format" section
    * Changed the screenshot of feature `help`
  * Developer Guide:
    * Added design considerations of the new class component
    * Added implementation details of the `deleteClass` feature, where two object diagrams and one sequence diagram were used
    * Updated the "Non-Functional Requirements" section
    * Added some user stories and use cases
    * Added instructions for manual testing for features `delete`, `select`, `remark`
    * Updated all hyperlinks to match the project

* **Project management/Contributions to team-based tasks**:
    * Renamed `person` to `student`, `address book` to `teachbook`
    * Set up protection of `master` branch on GitHub
    * Managed releases `v1.2` - `v1.4` (5 releases) on GitHub
    * Did video recording for demo of the app (`v1.2`) and uploaded it onto YouTube

* **Community**:
    * PRs reviewed (with non-trivial review comments): [\#76](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2103T-W10-2/tp/pull/76), [\#90](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2103T-W10-2/tp/pull/90), [\#98](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2103T-W10-2/tp/pull/98)
    * Reported bugs and suggestions for other teams in the class (examples: [1](https://github.com/fans2619/ped/issues))
